Interview with K-Pop by Beyond The Summit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w8YAYnv-wfM

4:09 in - question: 'what makes a good statistic?'

B: That's kinda subjective, it's kinda what people see and want in statistics? But personally what I think makes good statistics in DOTA are statistics that are telling about the game in a 'true' sense, obviously it shouldn't be misleading, but it also needs to be entertaining. It might be interesting - certain things might be very 'interesting' in regards to just the statistical aspect, but what we're doing as broadcasters is, first and foremost, entertaining the viewers. So we don't want to do anything that's too banal or boring or repetitive, we want to make something that's always exciting and we want to increase the value of the current broadcast and the casters. Like, always - when I was working with my casters at TI [The International 3] I was always, or my stats underlings, I was always 'We are not a third caster' was basically what I was big on, 'We're not a third person there in the [caster's] booth, we're there to make them look good.' When they're talking about something, that's when we drop our stats about something. We're there as a kind of secondary way to give the audience a more well-rounded view of the game and what's happening. Because, like, in baseball it's very important to be like, 'Oh, this guy has, you know, 400 on-base percentage, that means he's a very good hitter, you know'. It's one thing for a caster to say, 'Oh this guy plays a very good Queen of Pain', but we ought to be able to back it up and say, oh, this guy has a 75% winrate with Queen of Pain. And they pick it a lot. Or other teams ban it a lot. Add some validity to what the casters are saying - so even if you might trust someone like an LD [David Gorman, a prominent caster and co-founder of Beyond The Summit] who's been around for a while when he says someone's good at Queen of Pain, you trust him that that person is good at Queen of Pain, it's still good to have that, I guess, proof in a lot of ways.
