Draft - LGD vs CDEC, Nanyang Championships 2015
Analysts - KOTLGuy, Winter, Godz

K: Any other matches you're looking forward to, gentlemen, today? After this we have VP vs. Liquid, EHOME vs. [the winner of] that matchup, and of course the winner bracket, Secret vs. Vici Gaming. Anything you're tickled by?
[[Doom Ban, Tusk Ban]]
G: Secret vs. Vici... [mic cuts out]
K: ...do have that first pick, they take that first ban and get rid of the evil guy [Doom]. And on the other side LGD get rid of the Tusk.
W: They might be thinking about... [[Brood Ban]] They're gonna remove the brood now, and it's... for CDEC the other constant is the Radiant Shadow Fiend. I think LGD is also one of the better teams that can use the Radiant Shadow Fiend.
K: Broodmother gonna be taken care of right here. Not something I actually see CDEC play a lot of.
W: From time to time. I think they do use the hero [[Shadow Fiend Ban]] ... so, Radiant Shadow Fiend gone.
K: Yeah. Now we go back to LGD here. So...
W: Dark Seer, I guess?
G: I don't feel like teams have been prioritising Dark Seer, we've seen games where you go into the third, fourth, even fifth pick and it's not banned or picked up.
W: Yeah, that was happening a lot with the Secret, sorry, Liquid series. They didn't prioritise it. [[Ember Spirit Pick]].
K: Oh, wow. Ember Spirit.
W: So I guess CDEC have to pick up the Dark Seer, you don't really want to give the Ember and Dark Seer together. They can even go for the Dark Seer plus Wyvern if they wish.
G: Spirit Breaker's another possibility... looking at matches coming out of the Chinese teams recently, Spirit Breaker's been a top 2 pick in almost all those games, with or without the Dark Seer.
K: Do CDEC play Nightstalker at all? Sometimes we see Nightstalker as an instant counter.
W: Uh, not so much. Nighstalker's maybe more for Western or SEA teams.
K: Any other way it could potentially... I agree, Dark Seer for teamfight.
G: The main hero we're going to be considering for sure is the Queen of Pain [[Dark Seer pick]] always solid, stable, fits any draft, and you can lane it in very different ways: put it in the safelane for Aggresif, mid for Shiki, we've seen some teams run it in the offlane although that's not going to be the case with the Dark Seer pickup.
K: Spirit Breaker might potentially be that second grab, or a good [inaudible] Wyvern as we mentioned before. [inaudible] giving away too much here.
G: The Dark Seer/QoP might just be picking up too many of your core heroes at the start of the draft.
W: I think the QoP opening was seen a lot with the Spirit Breaker: you open with Spirit Breaker, you have QoP, so your drafting is more flexible. When you have Dark Seer and QoP as your first two opening, you're more likely to have your draft figured out, because it's Dark Seer offlane more or less, and QoP safelane.
K: Do you think teams put a lot of emphasis on getting a support to zone back this Dark Seer effectively, getting something like a Disruptor, or... we don't see it as much from the Eastern teams... we used to see teams go for that support Naga early, [[Wyvern pick]] having the ensnare would help them prevent him from getting away from the surge... Wyvern is the second pick, we're not too surprise by that, but... [[Gyrocopyer pick]] quick followup, it's going to be Gyrocopter, so LGD not afraid to show their hand at the start of the draft.
W: This is... a lot of memories that I remember during the group stages at TI, LGD would open their draft with Ember and Gyrocopter right away. You secure your two cores which are really good at defending highground, and basically your lategame is very, very powerful at this stage.
G: Not just your lategame, your Gyro comes online very early and can create a lot of space, and I think this was when LGD had their success under xiao8 was when they had the Sylar Gyrocopter. It felt like that was the one hero where, even if he wasn't playing the one position in the sense that he wasn't getting the most farm priority, he could still have a high impact on the game and roam around, not quite to the same extent as Aggresif does on the side of CDEC, but he doesn't need to be as farmed as Maybe on this hero.
W: Yeah that's when you're talking about [[Lina Ban]] the balance between getting farm on Maybe and getting farm on Sylar, [[Clock Ban]] because when you have Ember and Gyropcopter, the two heroes can actually rotate, you know? This stage of the game when Gyro gets six, you come in, you give the lane away for your teammates or even the Ember so you have your team [call down?]. But when Ember gets his level 7, level 8, he has his drums, it's his turn to make space for the team, so you can actually rotate between these two heroes to make space for each other.
G: It really feels like Gyro may soon become like a first ban, because it's had huge success here and just every team is running it.
W: It's still really strong. The only thing that changes is that, he doesn't really deal with the BKB heroes as well as before because you can't slow them, but overall his early game - to begin, he's the same hero.
K: The one thing I heard was questionable, but people were saying one reason why Gyro was falling off was his lategame, he would fall off in the lategame a bit, I know he's a ... [inaudible]
W: ...and ancients, as well, because the ancients got stronger.
K: That's right, yeah.
G: Couple more bans coming out now, Lina taken out by LGD, CDEC thinking about a Slardar maybe, something to be considering for Aggresif here, it depends on what they want to get Shiki as well though... if they want to get a lot of minus armour, physical damage like a Slardar/TA, Slardar/QoP, but...
W: There are many options here for CDEC, but I think the Clock was a really good ban because Ember plus Gyro is very resource intensive, [[Viper Ban]] they need a lot of farm on the map so they need an offlaner which doesn't require too much and Clockwerk's a really good candidate for LGD.
K: Looks like LGD are going to target the Viper, which is something that Shiki's been playing quite a bit recently.
W: They want to secure the Ember's lane, basically, I feel that Ember versus Viper is very hard. You talk about Ember versus Queen but I think versus Viper Ember has a much harder time.
K: Any other scary potential matchups for the ember spirit? There's a queen of pain out there, Razor, any other lane dominators that can give Ember a tough time?
W: Razor's one of them. But I feel like CDEC wants to have much more lategame, because you're up against Ember and Gyro. If you have Razor as one of your cores for CDEC, it puts you on a very big timer, you have to end, you have to finish the game before the Ember and the Gyro become huge. Whereas if you compare to having a TA or something that has more lategame, you feel like you're more secure, you don't have to rush to finish the game.
K: I wouldn't mind seeing that classic Q four-position Windranger again.
W: I think he's gonna be playing the Viper.
K: I think it'd build more on top of the teamfight, both teams are already showing they got huge teamfight but with a start like Dark Seer and Wyvern I can't see them wanting to build any more. Queen of Pain is just... seeming like a better candidate.
W: I think Queen of Pain plus Spirit Breaker could be good options that CDEC have for their lineup right now.
G: Oh yeah, Spirit Breaker's still in the pool.
W: They have Dark Seer so they can create pressure for the Gyro, versus Dark Seer and Spirit Breaker, and then Queen would obviously be mid against the Ember, so overall they have very solid laning phase. [[Undying Ban]] Undying is a really good ban here. LGD might be looking to go for it if CDEC doesn't want to go for it. We saw... I think Secret utilising the tombstone plus the flak cannon to farm ancients very early on, so that could be something that helps LGD get a lead in the game.
G: With this ban I think they just target the offlaners because there's a very limited pool of heroes left now for ROTK.
W: Non-resource consuming, that's the key.
G: Yeah, Undying, Clockwerk and Tusk. Well, Tusk was banned by LGD but CDEC used that ban to their advantage knowing that there's no offlane pick yet for ROTK. [[Slardar Pick]]
K: Slardar is the grab... I was about to ask, have we seen ROTK play an offlane Slardar but that doesn't even matter now.
W: Maybe... I think the few good remaining options maybe just Beastmaster or Batrider... no, Batrider is very resource-consuming.
G: Needs farm, yeah. Even Beastmaster offlane this game, I feel that Beastmaster in the offlane needs SOME help, you can't just send him up there...
W: Yeah but he doesn't need... importantly, he doesn't need farm. He might need help at some stage but he doesn't need so much farm, and he's gonna be able to function the same without farm, he just needs his levels and he roams around, creates some space, I could see them going down that route. [[Dazzle Pick]]
G: As much as it doesn't seem that great any more, I feel like the offlane Earthshaker could even be a possibility, it's not resource-intensive, you can just fissure-block...
W: Your lanes are very weak though.
K: Looks like they've also been not afraid to pull out something like a Sand King in the past, or even a Nyx Assassin. I'm just saying once you get off that top layer of offlane options, you gotta start digging a bit deep...
G: I think Nyx is not bad, but at the same time he needs a blink to function, he's not like Beastmaster. I mean it's cool to have the Necrobook but [[Spirit Breaker pick]] you don't really need it to function at the start of the game, Necrobook is like "OK, good, you have it, you can solo kill" but you don't really need it.
K: I can't help but feel that CDEC are just giving a kinda draft... this is just going beautifully for them. They get their Spirit Breaker to go on the Dark Seer, Agressif has shown that he is a marvellous Slardar player, Wyvern has a good standard, and I hope for LGD's sake it's not too much of them trying to deal with the draft and respond, and be forced to play CDEC's kind of game.
G: And this is so much the power of having that Dark Seer opening, is that with CDEC they are versatile, they have so many followup picks they can go for, like you can very much see a Spirit Breaker working well with the Dark Seer, we've talked about how Spirit Breaker being picked in the first two but, LGD in the second ban phase they want to protect the Ember so they ban out the Shiki heroes, which means these heroes are still available third and fourth. CDEC right now, really solid draft overall.
W: Yeah I guess you can only choose to ban out... you can ban out heroes that go well with the enemy, or you can choose to ban out the heroes that are really good versus the Ember in the lane, you can only choose one.
G: Yeah you don't want to ban out one of each because then they get, like, a Lina with the Spirit Breaker for example, or Lina with the Slardar. And, Shiki - there's still a few [[Lich pick]] heroes left for him, Queen of Pain still in the pool, Templar Assassin can work well with the minus armour from Slardar.
W: Does he play... he doesn't play Windranger right? Windranger's really good with Slardar.
G: He's... not played much Windranger that I can recall.
W: Mostly TA.
G: There's a Lich here, so looking to counteract the minus armour.
W: They just want mass armour, and they might actually look to go for a hero like Centaur, to initiate. Because they have Lich now so they can secure the offlane for ROTK now, that's really important, because the other two heroes need a lot of farm so the offlaner has to have a good time so he can make space for Ember and Gyrocopter.
K: We not concerned at all about the lack of disables on LGD? There's no real lockdown factor.
G: The ROTK hero will always be that. [[Earthshaker ban]]
W: It really depends on their last hero. They can solve all their issues by having a lockdown hero on ROTK.
G: Earthshaker banned out, we talked about that earlier as a possibility, Shaker, Centaur, any kind of blink initiator is gonna be pretty solid here. [[QoP ban]] For CDEC I don't know if... OK, against a Lich you want to throw in some spell damage as well, which is where Queen of Pain gets banned out.
K: I would've felt that if they got that Queen of Pain it would've just been... a perfect five-man.
G: If CDEC had been told they would've got those five heroes coming into this game, they'd just be like, "Whoa, how does that happen?"
K: We gotta see the fallback. Is TA far-fetched here for Shiki?
W: TA's fine.
G: It's not far-fetched, I think it's fine. QoP would've been a stronger pick.
W: I still think Windranger but they don't play Windranger so that's... it would've been a really good choice here, the focus fire. But I guess they would fall back to the TA, the highest chance is TA.
G: Do you think there's any chance they get like a Dragon Knight? If they wanna be able... they don't have any pushing power right now. TA brings some but DK is safer and it's earlier pressure. [[Razor pick]] Well, OK. It's a lane dominator.
W: They want to win all their lanes and finish the game by around thirty to fourty minute mark. So they have a lot of physical damage between the Razor and the Slardar, they need to win their lanes quite convincingly with this hero, we mentioned, when you have Razor or Viper, if you don't win the lanes you're basically wasting a pick on the hero.
K: Do you think we're going to see a different itemisation from Razor given that they have the Dark Seer who can potentially get the Mek for the team?
W: Probably just S&Y, BKB. For LGD I think the Centaur could be really good versus the Razor now. You wanna be able to stampede away from static link.
G: Even the force staff hero you want. [[Axe pick]]
K: Ooooh, baby! AXE! Is this a first for Nanyang?
G: Yeah, it's.... it's a first, at least for the finals here in Singapore.
W: I worry about one thing, because when you have Axe you want to have that hero who has instant burst, low cooldown spell, so you can keep using your call and culling blade to keep killing heroes. They don't really have a spell that's very fast cooldown. Call down is not burst single damage like a Skywrath ult or a finger.
K: I feel like he'd be an easy target for a Razor to sap some damage from.
W: They have to win the lanes with the Lich Axe. If they don't win the lanes with the Lich Axe, they're gonna be in trouble.
G: They even have Dazzle, do you think there's any chance of an aggressive trilane or does that make Sylar too vulnerable on the safelane?
W: Maybe aggressive trilane with the gyro and leave... but Axe against Dark Seer is not ideal as well.
K: Plus you have a Spirit Breaker on the other side, I'd be a bit nervous.
W: I think the idea is to have the Axe disrupt the Slardar's farm in lane, so maybe they just want to win their lanes, which I can see as their main plan right now. If they don't win their lanes, they're in trouble.
K: We'll see if they'll be able to win those lanes, the game has started, so let's send it over to our casters for the very first matchup for Day 2 Main Stage action, it's LD and Lumi! Gentlemen, have some fun.
