The Summit 4, Upper Bracket Finals, Game 1 - EG vs VG
Match ID: 1995874559
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NJjc3ThnJWE

Casters: Godz, Fogged, DC.Bulba, Kotlguy
Godz is primarily a caster, Fogged is a professional recently changed to casting, Bulba is a coach/player, Kotlguy is a caster
[Comments in square brackets]
[Picks and bans also in square brackets as they happen]

[Start around 5:34]
Fogged [to Bulba]: Who do you think's gonna take it?
Godz: I'm always curious...
Bulba: It's all about the picks, right?
Fogged: Oh come on, you have to, before picks, before anything, who do you think - with nothing, with no information.
Bulba: [Putting his glasses] Uhhhh, I can't see....
Kotl: Can't see into the future without his glasses!
Bulba: EG. I think EG.
Fogged: EG? Okay.
Godz: Someone get on the observer PC and check the lobby chat? Okay we're loading in.
Fogged: EG cannot go straight to the winner bracket without dropping to the lower bracket, dude.
Bulba: Gotta see if VG bans SF. If I was VG I would ban SF plus uh... SF plus Bane. Probably the bans for VG, and EG will ban Undying plus uh, plus one. Undying, Dark Seer on EG.
Kotl: So Doom is not really a big deal any more?
[VG Bans Bane]
Bulba: They might, I dunno VG did play Doom once so maybe EG will respect ban the Doom.
Godz: And even the Tusk is something iceiceice has been playing a bit of lately.
[EG Bans Doom]
Bulba: Yeah Doom's banned.
Fogged: There's the Doom ban.
Bulba: And here they would ban SF, unless they want to play versus EG's SF. But it is SF Radiant, so I... thing is when you play versus SF Radiant, your entire game is about playing versus SF Radiant, and if you screw up once it's - it's SF Radiant, it's like EG's games yesterday versus Liquid, all three games EG had SF Radiant, and then uh, the first game Liquid managed to beat it and then the last two games they weren't able to, they made some screw-up plays and then they just lost.
Godz: Are you surprised to see EG on the Radiant side, Bulba, or are you thinking that's something they prefer?
Bulba: No I think generally the Radiant side is favoured for the team that care a lot about their mid player. So uh. You have Sumail and Arteezy, you have basically two mid players on this team, so. And then you have Fear as well, he used to be a mid player. Three mid players! They're debating whether to ban SF.
Fogged: Yeah they're definitely thinking.
Bulba: It's kinda weird though, I guess they're just gonna wait for the time to... [referring to the draft timer]
[VG Bans Tusk]
Bulba: Tusk? So they're gonna give up EG Bane [he meant SF] - unless, thing is, VG's also played SF but I don't think EG cares about Super's SF on Dire, it just doesn't seem like...
Fogged: It doesn't seem like something they [VG] would go to.
Bulba: Yeah, if they play versus SF on Dire I don't think they care as much. EG's debating whether to ban Undying, Dark Seer or just ban the SF as well.
Kotl: Have we seen Evil Geniuses pull out the Timbersaw yet this tournament?
Fogged: No.
[EG Ban Gyrocopter]
Bulba: I think it's because... Gyrocopter?
Fogged: Hmm. Maybe they want the Undying?
Kotl: Well they definitely want something if they're not going to get whatever this may be.
Bulba: Well, since Gyro was banned there, EG wants SF, Undying, that's their ideal. But uh...
[VG Picks Shadow Fiend]
Bulba: ...now EG will play versus SF Undying.
Fogged: So do you think they'll Dazzle, or...?
Kotl: Dark Seer, Wyvern?
Bulba: They could do that. They probably want the Undying though.
Fogged: That's exactly what I was thinking, because they ban the Gyro.
Bulba: They could take like Dazzle, Undying. Or, I dunno if they'd do that.
Fogged: That sounds a little weird for them.
Godz: That's all PPD would talk about when he was on the couch, Dazzle, Dazzle, Dazzle.
Fogged: He's just mindgaming us. Mindgaming everybody.
Godz: [Laughs] Yeah! He doesn't actually think the hero's as good as he's talking about.
[EG Pick Dark Seer]
Bulba: Okay, Wyvern?
Fogged: Wyvern, or Dazzle?
[EG Pick Dazzle]
Bulba: Dazzle, Dark Seer, okay.
Kotl: So I got one, and you guys got one, everyone's happy. [Laughs]
Godz: Do Vici take Undying here? I mean...
Bulba: I think there's a... VG wants a support to help out on mid. When you pick SF Dire you need a support to help camp [camping is hanging around a particular area, in this case mid to protect SF] the SF mid, or else he's just gonna get crushed. So they need, like, a Wyvern or... Dazzle's taken... Bane is banned. So what else is there? There's like, Rubick, that's generally OG likes that.
Fogged: Not this early though.
Godz: Pull out the Bounty Hunter? That's a fy classic.
Bulba: Yeah, but Dark Seer is very good against Bounty in the game.
Fogged: And so is Dazzle.
Bulba: I don't know if they'll take the Bounty this early. They could just open up with like... they also need a hero who can solo Dark Seer.
[VG Pick Undying]
Fogged: Okay so Undying is the one they're gonna go for.
Bulba: Okay EG should ban Rhasta [Shadow Shaman], I think, cos VG had this lineup at... like they should ban Rhasta and Venge... but Venge isn't very good laning against Dark Seer so I don't know if that's worth banning. And VG would probably ban, like, some of Sumail's mid heroes like Invoker maybe, or Templar Assassin.
Fogged: They could ban the QoP too, just cos they picked up the Undying, right? Like QoP, Huskar, they could be afraid of that.
Kotl: EG are just not Huskar players, right?
[VG Ban Huskar]
Kotl: Okay they're just gonna ban it anyway.
Bulba: Yeah you just gotta... it's like a respect ban, right?
Kotl: Yeah, just don't want to give it a chance.
Fogged: You don't want to start a Best Of 3 losing just because of that.
[EG Bans Vengeful Spirit]
Bulba: Okay so EG bans the Venge. Now they're probably gonna ban Rhasta, or... like, Bounty, like you said.
[VG Bans Phantom Lancer]
Bulba: I don't know if they would ban VG's Bounty, though.
Godz: I think PPD, when he was casting one of the games where VG was playing Bounty, was like "Yeah fy when he's playing the Bounty, he has these bad games or gets shut down a lot" so...
Bulba: I think EG will ban something and take Wyvern here.
Fogged: You think... just cos of the Dark Seer?
Bulba: Yeah.
Fogged: Even though it's with the Dazzle?
Bulba: Yes. Wyvern in general, he's a good hero versus SF.
Kotl: No stuns though, no worry of lack of lockdown with that?
Bulba: You don't need stuns in DOTA anymore.
Fogged: [laughs]
Bulba: You just need, like, one stun.
Kotl: Alright.
Bulba: They ban the Phantom Lancer, a good ban by VG there. Artour [EG.Arteezy] played it against us, two games versus us.
Fogged: It can be really strong versus the Undying too, because you can instakill the Tombstone.
[EG Ban Winter Wyvern]
Bulba: Okay they ban the Wyvern, then. So uh, they don't wanna give Vici Wyvern + Undying and I guess they don't wanna take the Wyvern for Fear.
Kotl: Could they get like a Spirit Breaker instead for Fear, goes along with the Dark Seer a bit. Could add a lot of pressure on the Shadow Fiend.
Bulba: Yeah.
Fogged: Spirit Breaker's a good pick here.
Bulba: Spirit Breaker's good.
Fogged: Maybe they wait for the fourth pick to grab it, but it's still good.
Bulba: Maybe EG could also want the Bounty Hunter, to crush the SF. Like, uh, like in these tournaments you see... like China's picking this Bounty versus SF, right? So, uh, maybe EG takes this Bounty to crush Vici's SF.
Kotl: Yeah other than that it's like, Nightstalker, maybe? That's a Fear kind of hero.
Bulba: There's Windranger still for Sumail, Invoker, there's a Queen of Pain as well.
Fogged: Yeah there's still QoP.
Kotl: And no-one's going Slardar any more, has that really fallen off?
[EG Pick Juggernaut]
Bulba: Whoa, Juggernaut.
Kotl: Oh the Jugg? That's a lot of heal. I mean, will Vici go for an AA still to respond to that? It's push, it's heal. I think someone's gonna get Mek.
Bulba: I think they want, uh, like Rhasta, something like that. Based on what they picked last time they played this lineup. They need an iceiceice hero. I don't think he'll play the Undying.
Fogged: I think Fenrir for the most part plays it, exclusively on their team.
Godz: I've definitely seen iceiceice play it, like, as far as... yeah.
Kotl: Hello, the roaming Undying strat that he has? [laughter from all] Viral sensation!
Godz: Not to screw with you guys, it's definitely 50/50 him or Fenrir I think.
Bulba: What if VG just bust out the Logan Abaddon here [Logan was a famous streamer at the time who became known in North America for picking Abaddon every game, which was then picked up by pro players.]
Fogged: The Logan Abaddon! No, they already have Dark Seer, do you think they would?
Bulba: No, Vici.
Fogged: Oh, Vici! Okay.
Kotl: It's spreading like fire, yeah. [laughter]
Fogged: It's really good. I mean it's really good with their lineup, they don't really have anything to remove the shield. I like Rhasta, probably looks best.
Kotl: I'm seeing two lineups that just want to get together and push push push objectives.
Bulba: Well, Vici needs a hero who can lane versus a DS [Dark Seer], in the top lane. So, uh, what is there... there's not much...
Kotl: Isn't Disruptor pretty good? Helps pulls back a glimpse.
[VG Pick Spirit Breaker]
Fogged: *Vici* took the Spirit Breaker.
Kotl: Whoa.
Bulba: That's iceiceice's hero.
Godz: They picked Burning Queen of Pain a bit, he hasn't been phenomenal on the hero but it seems to be like a kind of hero they would pick for him that would lane well against Dark Seer.
Fogged: Could be, Burning plays everything.
Godz: Yeah.
Bulba: What the Juggernaut has done is... they've banned Wyvern, and then they have Dazzle, and they took the Jugg because Wyvern is generally a good hero against Juggernaut against someone who gets Omnislashed.
Fogged: So it could still be Windrunner even though it's not as great versus a Spirit Breaker.
Bulba: And you can ulti a Juggernaut when he's spinning, and cancel his TP [talking about the Wyvern].
Godz: Is there any consideration towards an Ember pick? It's something that Arteezy's been spamming in pubs, it's something that Arteezy and Sumail both play it.
Bulba: I don't think that... I mean EG wants a hero who can just dominate mid-
[EG Picks Queen of Pain]
Bulba: -yeah, they take the Queen.
Fogged: It was Queen or Windrunner, I thought.
Bulba: But, uh, Spirit Breaker is a good hero versus Queen. Spirit Breaker's actually very good versus the Juggernaut and the Queen.
[VG Pick Anti-Mage]
Bulba: Anti-Mage, okay.
Kotl: Oh, the Burning AM! [Burning is famous for farming heroes like Anti-Mage] It's here.
Bulba: So, the only reason they've picked this Anti-Mage is because they needed a hero to lane versus Dark Seer, and AM is a good hero versus Queen, but I don't know the stats on these SF/Anti-Mage lineups, they're generally way too greedy.
Fogged: It tends to lose.
Bulba: It's too much space, SF needs too much help, Anti-Mage needs... like the game needs to go in Anti-Mage's favour, like when you pick SF you want to run your game around SF. And when you pick AM you want to run it around Anti-Mage. So you have these two very greedy heroes together. OG ran this at, uh, the Defense and Liquid just rolled over them.
[EG Bans Axe]
Fogged: Yeah they said it was too greedy.
Godz: Super's SF is one of the less greedy SFs though. He'll always go the Mek build, pretty much-
[VG Bans Nightstalker]
Godz: -and play a lot more defensively.
Bulba: Axe ban? Maybe ice is playing that in pubs or something? Axe is a good hero against Juggernaut, perhaps that's why they banned it.
Fogged: Yeah, Jugg and Dazzle.
Kotl: I like the Nightstalker ban, would've been good - Ion Shell, run at your face, and the silence for the AM. So what is Fear's hero gonna be then? No Spirit Breaker, now no Nightstalker. Some other run-at-you potential disable for this AM.
Bulba: Nightstalker is banned so....
Fogged: Could still be Rhasta, for them.
Godz: I think they want catch so they can actually kill the AM, they want like a Lion/Rhasta.
Kotl: Yeah.
Bulba: I don't like Lion as a hero.
Godz: I just feel like, you can't play into AM with no catch here. Vacuum's all you've got, and a QoP orchid before AM gets Manta.
Kotl: Aghs Lion, with vacuum? Hell yeah!
Fogged: Rhasta... Do they still do Shaker support at all? They do, don't they?
Bulba: Yeah but I don't know if they'll pick it here.
Fogged: I don't think so either. I like the Rhasta a lot but I'm trying to think of something else.
Godz: Skywrath Mage, guys. [joking]
Fogged: The return. [laughter]
Godz: It could happen! That would be one of the more shocking picks to see, in this tournament in general. Skywrath has got to be one of the least picked heroes in this patch.
Fogged: Definitely some catch.
Bulba: I think EG could take the Rhasta and deny VG the Rhasta. I don't know what else VG would pick here. I'm thinking about what he's played so far in this tournament.
Kotl: Can he go back for a Rubick? [fy is famous for his Rubick]
Bulba: Rubick is... is this...
[EG Pick Earthshaker]
Fogged: Okay they go for the Earthshaker.
Bulba: Like, Rubick just seems...
Kotl: Very good now! Earthshaker, QoP...
Bulba: I dunno, the hero's so slow, and you have these four melee heroes, you have an Anti-Mage... like, what is your safe lane, it's...
Fogged: I feel like you want something stronger than a Rubick because you want to have the Anti-Mage playing away from you, and you want to group up with the SF and the Undying just a bit. Rubick seems a little greedy.
Bulba: Yeah, if they Rubick I would favour EG's lineup by a lot. I already favour EG's lineup quite a bit, because I think SF will get pretty crushed.
Fogged: I'm just not really seeing anything, I mean it's gotta be like, Rhasta, Rubick... I dunno.
Kotl: Is the Rhasta/Rubick for what...
[VG Pick Rubick]
Kotl: Well, well, well.
Bulba: I dunno.
Fogged: I dunno if I like it though.
Godz: fy drafting he's just saying, look, I wanna put on a show here.
Fogged: There's a lot of good spells to steal, he's got like blink, QoP, Earthshaker, grave, obviously Juggernaut ulti.
Bulba: I mean Rubick is a good hero versus Dark Seer in lane, he's one of the supports who can kill him, like you can just save your life for the surge.
[conversation moves into commentary of the game]


---
PREDICTIONS:
5:42 - Bulba predicts EG WIN - CORRECT
6:00 - Bulba predicts VG, FIRST PHASE BAN, BANE - CORRECT
6:00 - Bulba predicts VG, FIRST PHASE BAN, SF - WRONG
6:05 - Bulba predicts EG, FIRST PHASE BAN, UNDYING - WRONG
6:05 - Bulba predicts EG, FIRST PHASE BAN, DARK SEER - WRONG
9:35 - Bulba suggests EG, SECOND PHASE BAN, SHADOW SHAMAN - WRONG
9:35 - Bulba suggests VG, SECOND PHASE PICK, SHADOW SHAMAN [implied] - WRONG
9:35 - Bulba suggests EG, SECOND PHASE BAN, VENGEFUL SPIRIT - CORRECT
9:35 - Bulba suggests VG, SECOND PHASE PICK, VENGEFUL SPIRIT - CORRECT [implied]
9:55 - Bulba suggests VG, SECOND PHASE BAN, INVOKER - WRONG
9:55 - Bulba suggests VG, SECOND PHASE BAN, TEMPLAR ASSASSIN - WRONG
10:00 - Fogged suggests VG, SECOND PHASE BAN, QUEEN OF PAIN - WRONG
10:45 - Bulba predicts EG, SECOND PHASE PICK, WINTER WYVERN - WRONG
11:25 - Kotl predicts EG, SECOND PHASE PICK, SPIRIT BREAKER - WRONG
12:15 - Kotl predicts VG, SECOND PHASE PICK, ANCIENT APPARITION - WRONG
