The Summit 4, Grand Finals, Game 1 - EG vs. VP
Match ID: 2000926804
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WOkaTsdkAtQ

Casters: OG.Fly, OG.Cr1t, OG.MoonMeander, OG.n0tail (left to right)
These are all pro players commentating as part of The Summit's broadcast
OG have lost to VP recently
[Comments in square brackets]
[Picks and bans also in square brackets as they happen]

Fly: ...Radiant does have some advantages. I think there were statistics for the majors at least that Dire had a higher winrate, but... for this LAN I know that VP and EG both prefer Radiant, so VP prefers the whole mid dominance, and bottom lane dominance, and they just like killing, so it's good for them. For EG I'm not 100% sure why they prefer Radiant, but it just seems like it's their comfort zone right now, the way they play around middle, and Sumail can get off to a good start and so... it's interesting to see.
Notail: I think this is pretty funny, I don't think it's like other things in DOTA where it's less player preference, it's more general, here for example CDEC [a Chinese team] play better around Dire just because they're more used to it and they've put more thought into it, but that's not to say that Radiant is better or Dire is better.
Fly: True.

<okay I actually skipped ahead to just after 7:00 because it takes a while to start>

Fly: And the game has begun... damn, look at that intro right there. Super cool. Bears versus a logo. [laughing] We have EG, who has chosen Radiant, they did have choice that is their advantage coming from the upper bracket. They chose Radiant, and VP chose first pick so this is going to be pretty interesting, I'm actually really excited, I think VP has shown that they're here to win it. They had a roster change, I think they're feeling they want to prove to everyone that they're a team to beat. They haven't won anything recently, but now they seem really strong.
Notail: Do you think they're better with Silent than with Illidan [the player, not the hero]?
Moon: Way, way better.
Fly: What do you think Andreas? [Crit]
Crit: I think they're pretty similar. I think Silent is slightly better than Illidan, especially in the way they play.
[Four bans have already happened: Bane, Tusk for VP, Slardar Gyro for EG]
Fly: Oh the bans are already done, by the way.
[VP Pick Shadow Fiend]
[EG Pick Queen of Pain]
Fly: Whoa, whoa, whoa, alright. Things going on.
[EG Pick Dazzle]
Notail: Oh my god. Is this a remake? [This is a joke - remakes happen after drafts if something goes wrong, and the picks are very fast because they are repeating drafted heroes so there's no decision-making]
Crit: Come on guys, we're not professional casters here, take it slow!
[VP Pick Spirit Breaker]
Notail: Good lord!
Moon: This is some rage drafting right there.
Fly: Alright so, both teams obviously had a plan coming into this, regarding bans and picks.
[VP Ban Phantom Lancer]
Fly: Uh, so there is the Dire Shadow Fiend which EG did play against Vici Gaming three games in a row I believe, so they don't have much respect for the Dire SF. They like punishing it and obviously the Queen pickup and the Dazzle to prevent VP from taking the SF-Dazzle. So... alright, pretty agressive, they did ban out Slardar and Gyrocopter, two heroes who are super comfortable for VP. And VP ban Bane and Tusk, heroes that EG has been using a lot - to abuse middle with the Bane, and Tusk is just overall a good hero, obviously.
[EG Ban Disruptor]
Fly: What do you guys think? Johann?
Notail: I think it's interesting. I mean they both kinda knew... I don't know if EG knew they were gonna pick Spirit Breaker like that but I think EG could predict everything that went down up until they picked Dazzle. But then, yeah, the Dazzle pick does a lot of things, but EG's not really a team that runs Huskar so you see they [VP] are not even banning it.
[VP Ban Winter Wyvern]
Notail: Uh... they [EG] could ban AA and pick Huskar here and that could be rather decent versus this.
Moon: I like the Disruptor ban because EG is gonna play the safe lane game and if you want to sac [sacrifice - not protect or help] your offlaner, let him do whatever he wants by himself, if the enemy team has a Disruptor, even though Disruptor's a really bad hero, it's really punishable, but if you let the offlaner by himself and he lanes against Disruptor he's going to get nothing and Disruptor is going to get so much, and the hero actually becomes good.
Fly: Okay. What do you think, Andreas?
Crit: Um. I don't know about this Spirit Breaker first phase. Not a fan. It doesn't protect mid, it's kind of aggressive but it's also bad for the lanes, so.
Fly: Alright. I think EG is probably going to ban the Visage here. The Lil Visage. Gotta give him some respect, uh, I think the Disruptor ban is okay but the thing is that, if you noticed-
[EG Ban Visage]
Fly: There's the Visage ban - if you noticed, is that they run Disruptor with Gyrocopter because Gyrocopter makes up for the laning weaknesses of Disruptor. Say they pick a Disruptor now - EG can still contest him. They can dual lane offlane, they can do whatever they want, because there's no Gyrocopter, so...
Notail: I think their stats are really low for that, right? For contesting, they don't like to do that.
Fly: Yes, I mean they have done it more recently now, they did do it against Vici Gaming, so it's not out of the question. EG is a team that will punish you for doing something greedy. Like say you pick jungle heroes, this was a long time ago, they would always run a block hero woods [woods meaning in the enemy jungle]. They're just the type of team that punishes you.
Moon: But if you do... the reason why I think they banned the Disruptor even though they can punish it by going dual offlane with the Gyrocopter ban is because they want to play the safe lane game in the mid game [he possibly said 'mid lane' here] so they can keep killing the SF over and over again. Cos, like Andreas said, the Spirit Breaker cannot protect the SF so if EG picks up one killer hero here, QoP might just take over the game by himself.
Notail: I'm calling Broodmother by the way.
Fly: Alright. Broodmother for EG?
Notail: Yeah.
Moon: Yeah it relieves pressure off the mid lane so QoP can keep killing SF. I can see that happening.
Fly: Alright. What do you think's the next pick, Crit?
Crit: Um. I think it could be a few heroes [maybe misheard that?]. Probably... maybe the Shadow Shaman?
Moon: I think Earthshaker.
Fly: Okay.
Crit: I think Shadow Shaman's a good hero here.
Fly: Alright, I will agree with the Earthshaker here. Personally I think it's a good hero against Spirit Breaker and it's a good hero with the Queen. You can pressure mid a lot. I actually think Earthshaker is going to be the pick as well.
Notail: And they're going to pick support shaker?
Fly: Ye-I mean they will keep it open, of course, but I think that's gonna be their aim. So that's the one choice, the other choice is that they'll wanna go...
[EG Pick Doom]
Fly: Alright. The Doom that we kinda... didn't mention...
[VP Pick Ancient Apparition]
Fly: ...and there's an instant AA.
Notail: Hoooly shit. FNG is just... oh man.
Moon: No, this is... this is just really good for EG. Like if the Doom just goes offlane by himself and let's say they lane AA plus one versus him, he's gonna be happy, because then he knows the mid's gonna get stomped, EG's gonna stomp the mid...
Crit: You can't say that, because you don't know what VP's going to have mid with SF, so...
Moon: Yeah, but the Doom versus AA? The Doom will just crap on the AA lane if there's only two heroes there. You know so it forces VP to lane three heroes there otherwise the Doom is going to win the lane two versus one, and he'll kill the carry.
Crit: But they can just have a hero that rotates on the safe lane. Spirit breaker can do it.
Fly: It's important to note...
[EG Pick Earthshaker]
Fly: Okay there's the Shaker, it was the fourth pick after all, and...
[VP Pick Dark Seer]
Fly: ...alright, so that just means they want to... okay the Dark Seer pick is nice, but they do have a Dazzle and a Doom and this will, to me it says that they can just safelane the Doom if they wanted to and just deal with the Dark Seer that way, you devour the creep, you have the Dazzle heals to shove out the creeps as well, so they have good answers for Dark Seer. [The camera cuts to a shot of VP's playing room]
Notail: Their admin's sitting in the middle of the room. You see that?
Fly: Yeah he's a cool guy.
Notail: I think so. No, but that's the other room, we've never been in that room, right?
[EG Ban Wraith King]
Moon: Wraith King was a good ban.
Fly: Yeah Wraith King was a good ban, they did run it before and AA is definitely an enabler for Wraith King because you get the stun into the Cold Feet, you have him jumping in with AA ulties, you know.
Moon: Yeah, kill potential.
Fly: They work very well together, and it's something VP has done before. So we are going to see a Lil Spirit Breaker or an FNG Spirit Breaker here. EG still has things open,
[VP Ban Juggernaut]
Fly: they could have Doom support, they could have Doom safelane, Doom offlane, Shaker support, Shaker offlane, it's pretty open for them. They do ban the Juggernaut so what do you think EG is looking to last pick here.
Moon: I think they should offlane Doom, cos they... if they safelane Doom they...
Notail: No they can't safelane Doom, cos Sumail is the safelane Doom player.
Moon: Arteezy can play it.
Fly: Sumail will play the Queen of Pain for sure.
Notail: I actually think Lone Druid.
Moon: If they want a Doom safelane they need an offlaner that benefits from the auras and they don't have that, they have Earthshaker.
Fly: I'm throwing it out there, I think Venge might be picked by either side, and I do think that the Lone Druid might come out for EG like Big Daddy [Notail] said here, it's definitely good against the Dark Seer.
[EG Pick Windranger]
Fly: But, they go Windranger. Alright. So that's probably Arteezy's hero.
Moon: Probably.
Notail: Yeah they could Sumail safelane with the Queen and offlane Universe with the Earthshaker.
Moon: That would be weird.
Notail: I think they're doing that.
Fly: They can still choose if they want to have an offlane Shaker and a forest [jungle] Doom, there is that possibility, we have seen Kobe here [referring to EG.Fear] playing Doom before, at least I remember. So that's not entirely out of the question, but I do think, more likely, it's going to be the offlane Doom.
[VP Pick Vengeful Spirit]
Moon: Offlane Doom...
Fly: There's the Venge! The Venge/SF is a powerhouse, Roshan will die very quickly, the lane is very strong now that means offlane Doom will not have a good time against this because they can punish him on their own, so...
Notail: So it is the Arteezy Windrunner.
Fly: That is a safelane Windrunner, I am assuming. Let's see how they do this now. This is the interesting part, if they choose to have Doom support or Doom offlane, because Doom offlane is going to have a hard time here.
Moon: An insanely hard time. I think Doom should go safelane versus the Dark Seer and put the Dazzle in a dual lane offlane.
Fly: That is possible. And then the Shaker's going to pressure middle.
[conversation moves into commentary of the game]

---
PREDICTIONS:
10:40 - Fly predicts EG, FOURTH BAN, VISAGE - CORRECT
11:51 - Notail predicts EG, PICK, BROODMOTHER at some point (doesn't say which phase) - WRONG
12:09 - Crit predicts EG, THIRD PICK, SHADOW SHAMAN - WRONG
12:10 - Moon predicts EG, THIRD PICK, EARTHSHAKER - RIGHT HERO, RIGHT PHASE, WRONG SLOT
12:23 - Fly predicts EG, THIRD PICK, EARTHSHAKER - RIGHT HERO, RIGHT PHASE, WRONG SLOT
14:32 - Notail predicts EG, FIFTH PICK, LONE DRUID - WRONG
14:44 - Fly predicts EG/VP, FIFTH PICK, VENGEFUL SPIRIT - CORRECT, VP PICK
14:46 - Fly predicts EG, FIFTH PICK, LONE DRUID - WRONG
