The Summit 4, Upper Bracket Finals, Game 2 - EG vs VG
Match ID: 1995917878
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mNfEip0GKxg

Casters: Kotlguy, OG.Fly, OG.Crit, DC.Bulba
Kotl is a caster, the other three are pro players
[Comments in square brackets]
[Picks and bans also in square brackets as they happen]

K: Hello everybody, welcome back to The Summit 4, we're getting into the nitty-gritty of day number three, the winner bracket final matchup of Evil Geniuses taking on Vici Gaming. We're getting ready to get underway into Game Number 2, but I did want to say to anyone out there who is not able to watch us live, maybe trying to sneak in some radio action on your phone, don't forget you can check out TheScore eSports App - look at that frickin' thing, you can get it on your phone, you can get it on the iOS store, the Android App store [I can't believe I'm transcribing advertising] isn't that crazy? You can get live updates with heroes, stats, items, it's got everything, it's just fricking wonderful, so - with that said, something that you guys probably know a bit more about - it's DOTA! Did you guys get to catch much of game number one?
F: I saw most of Game 1 just not the way the draft order went, I just heard that VG had first pick, and now they get to choose again because of the tournament rules and Peter [PPD, EG's captain] was mad about it because I was upstairs and I heard him say "This is ridiculous", but yeah - should be interesting!
K: Oh, well, that sounds wonderful(!) - Bulba, if you had to describe Game 1 in like, two words, what would it be.
B: Typical SF-Anti-Mage DOTA, on Dire. OG tried it, they lost.
F: We did try that, actually.
K: Well, we do have a draft so let's go hop into that right now and we can see what's in store for us, in game number 2.
[VG Banned Bane]
[EG Banned Doom]
[VG Banned Dark Seer]
B: So it looks like there will be another SF available in the pool, because EG does definitely not respect VG's SF.
C: Probably just because they're Radiant.
B: Yeah but even on Radiant, I feel like, EG... I dunno, Super's SF just doesn't feel like - you have these SF players, you know, that bring like fear into the enemy team, when you see them playing SF - like Miracle, Arteezy, Sumail. Yawar.
K: Fly is looking at him [Bulba] like, "I'm not afraid of anything!" [laughter]
F: It's somewhat true that VG's playstyle seems lackluster with SF. They got punished really hard when they did that as well against Secret, if you remember, they just had a Bounty/Tiny roaming on that guy 24/7, so uh...
B: Vici picks SF.
F: I feel like it's less their playstyle but obviously if they keep picking it it means that they have a plan, so we'll see.
[VG Picks Shadow Fiend]
B: And there it is.
F: They don't want to give EG, uh...
[EG Picks Tusk]
[EG Picks Dazzle]
F: ...the SF/Dazzle on Radiant.
[VG Picks Winter Wyvern]
F: Okay that was quick.
K: And our first phase is over! Just like that. [laughter] But I mean, it's not too surprising - I look at this and it's like, well, this is where we are. This is the meta.
F: Yeah.
[VG Bans Huskar]
C: I think this is not great for Vici, cos they have a Dire SF and normally you want a hero who can sit behind SF when you're Dire, and Wyvern is not that hero, and Tusk is out, Dazzle is out, because EG have him, and Bane is out, Undying is out. So that's like - four of the best, at doing that, so I think they're gonna need to get something not really ordinary to help him mid, and that won't be optimal.
B: EG will just ban Venge again.
F: We'll see.
K: Why don't they just ban the Shadow Fiend, and not worry about having to get it themselves?
B: Because they're worried about the Bane more.
K: It's even worse, huh?
B: But this Dark Seer ban also, it's like, it scares them. Like, they're scared of EG's Dark Seer.
[EG Bans Gyrocopter]
[Camera cuts to EG's room]
F: Old man Fear, taking his time.
B: They ban the Gyro.
F: Getting some water there.
B: EG also changed their bans up - last game it was Doom/Gyro first ban, now it's Doom/Undying, and then they save Gyro for second phase, because they know with SF they're not gonna take Gyro first-phase.
C: Is that cos, uh, is that cos Vici ban Dark Seer? Did they ban Tusk first game? Instead of Dark Seer?
B: Uh, yeah.
C: So that's probably why they banned Undying.
B: Wait I don't even think Tusk was banned, first game.
C: Oh. But they probably banned Undying because they want Tusk.
B: Yeah, definitely. Tusk wasn't bad first game, first phase [ban].
F: It'll be interesting to see what hero VG go with, to help out the SF if he's gonna get pressured again, because Bane is out, Undying is out, you know, Dazzle is out.
K: We were throwing around the name uh Rhas... Shadow Shaman, last game, and no-one even went for it at all.
F: He doesn't help the middle at all.
[VG Bans Lina]
B: It was mostly as a support, they needed, last game they had Undying to protect SF mid, but then SF solo died to Queen later on, so...
F: So they are leaving the Queen in the pool again, let's see if they go for it, I wouldn't be too surprised. Wyvern is pretty nice against Queen, but at the same time there's nothing that can help SF middle and with Tusk rotations SF has to be pretty afraid.
B: Let's see if EG takes the Juggernaut again. Last game they banned Wyvern and took Jugg so I'm not sure if they'll pick Jugg into Wyvern.... [pause] Thinking what else Arteezy plays, there's Phantom Lancer still...
F: There's enough Arteezy heroes in the pool. Most interesting one is how do they choose to deal with the SF, there's a TA which - they have Wyvern so they might go away from that, and there's still the Queen.
[EG Bans Vengeful Spirit]
F: They do ban the Venge, I think that's good, Venge and SF is like a powerhouse combination on Dire, too. Burning Venge, man, defeats the PLs [Phantom Lancer] of OGs [their team - Burning played Vengeful Spirit as a carry, which is unusual, and defeated OG's more orthodox draft]. Gotta be afraid of that.
B: And their Crit Rubicks.
C: Come on dude.
F: You gotta meme that, someone has to do it.
C: Come on dude, how is he flaming one of the guys on the couch. [laughter]
B: I mean I didn't flame you, I just said, the Venge beat your Rubick.
F: The Venge beat our PL, that's the funny one!
B: I'm saying the Venge beat the Rubick as well.
F: The Venge beat everyone on our team, even the Undying didn't have any fun that game, I can tell you that.
C: Fundying.
F: There was no fun around, Burning was like 'No!' and swapped me in. Into death. What a guy.
K: He was clutch with those swaps. Watching games like that, I felt guilty thinking like, "How come I don't see Illidan play core Venge like this?" now it seems like, very scary. Whenever it's Virtus Pro playing this I'm like "eh"
F: B-God. [some players gain the moniker suffix -God with their first initial if they are highly respected, usually in the eastern regions] We might even see the, uh, the Lord Of Avernus [old name for Abaddon] coming out with the Tusk, who knows.
K: Oooh.
[EG Picks Juggernaut]
F: Oh there's the Juggernaut. I'm thinking AA is not a terrible pick for VG. It doesn't protect mid so much, but it's something that will help them deal with this combination.
K: Plus you get that fun little arctic burn plus chilling touch combo, long range plus high bonus is pretty nifty.
F: Yeah.
C: I think AA is, like, too greedy.
B: Yeah the AA/Wyvern support duo is like, it's very slow, right?
F: It's very DC-esque, right? [Bulba's team] [laughter]
B: No, no no, that's not DC-esque.
F: Or was that Cloud 9?
B: Yeah, old Cloud 9.
F: Alright, alright.
B: That was their favourite support duo I think, Wyvern/AA.
F: Yeah, it's a bit slow, though. We'll see what happens. I wouldn't be too surprised if VG decide to go for something like Queen themselves, for Burning. That way they can kind of help out the SF more, because Queen isn't going to need as much help on the safelane.
C: Yeah Queen, Queen/Wyvern is a safelane you can't really fuck with.
F: Pretty much.
B: If you have, uh, Loganbupt [Logan was a famous streamer at the time who became known in North America for picking Abaddon every game, which was then picked up by pro players.] [laughter]
F: Lord of... Logan.
K: Lord... Logan of.... Avernus.
F: Logan of Lords.
B: I mean I see Crit, he's just spamming the hero, he names himself Lord of Avernus.
F: Lord of A. He used to be Carnage. Okay they're taking their time, let's see... what will we see this game. I wonder what ice [iceiceice] is going to play.
K: Slardar's just gone now.
B: Beastmaster's a good pick for VG.
F: No, I don't think Slardar is a good pick against Dazzle/Tusk.
C: Gyro too, Gyro's really good against him.
F: Gyro's a load of bull.
B: Beast is a really good pick for VG as well.
F: Who?
B: Beastmaster?
F: Ahhh, I don't think so, there's two saves on EG's side.
[VG Pick Ancient Apparition]
F: Oh the AA comes out, I was right, and uh...
K: I was right, just put that out there.
C: Bulba was left [referring to a meme at the time of being 'left' as being wrong]
[laughter]
B: I didn't even say it!
K: The whole couch is wrong.
F: No the left side of the couch is clearly wrong [Crit and Bulba are on the left-hand side, from Fly's perspective].
F: Alright look, Dakota [Kotlguy] tell me what's coming up next here.
K: For EG?
F: Yeah.
K: Well, uh... are we anticipating this is gonna be a Fear Tusk, or a Tusk for Universe?
F: I think they might leave it open and pick the mid hero now, and then they can kinda...
K: Oh okay. So what about Windranger? That's the first thing that I throw out there, casually.
F: Not against the Wyvern...
B: Is this a Queen of Pain game?
C: This is a good Queen game.
F: It's a pretty good Queen game right now.
C: If they have Queen of Pain/Tusk around middle, there's actually nothing SF can do about it.
F: Yeah he has to be afraid every time.
C: Yeah, it's pretty scary.
F: Are we gonna see, you know, uh... what else does Sumail play...
[EG Pick Invoker]
F: Oh! Right there, the Invoker.
K: Whoaaaa.
B: Nice.
F: That's pretty nice, pretty nice. I like it.
K: Why do we like this hero, gentlemen? Why here?
F: You've got the Cold Snap/Juggernaut spin combination, right there.
B: I mean they could've just picked the Queen and done what they did last game, it would've been safer.
F: I think Invoker works similar, but yeah it's a little more risky because Invoker and Tusk can kill SF the same way, Queen is just kinda...
B: Secures.
F: More simple to execute, you could say? But I think Invoker's nice here - they have two slow supports that Invoker can pretty much bully, um, and obviously they can enter the enemy woods [jungle] very easily with Invoker and Tusk every time and just kind of kill them. Obviously Queen would do something similar but they want to change it up this game, they don't want to have the exact same type of game they had last time, so uh. I dig it. I think Invoker's pretty good here. Um. VG is gonna want another BKB hero probably.
K: For Burning?
F: So far I like EG's draft.
[VG Pick Slardar]
B: Slardar... ice's hero.
K: So Slardar was not a good pick?
F: That was not... uh...
K: It may still not be a good pick, just like the Rubick we were kind of questioning last time.
B: The problem with Slardar in this game is that he's not gonna get any help, he's just gonna... get nothing bottom lane.
C: He's not gonna get anything, and they have like, Invoker's one of the worst heroes to play against as Slardar cos he gets his mana burn and stuff, and Jugger also...
B: Would PL [Phantom Lancer] have been a better pick, instead of Slardar?
[EG Ban Queen of Pain]
C: Um...
F: I'm not sure about the PL. I think... that's a nice ban by EG, by the way, the Burning Queen would've been good here. So VG is still playing around their teamfight, in a way, because if they get the blinks and the ultis on everyone then their fight is really strong, but obviously the problem is the laning will be scary for VG, but if they can get out of the laning and get their core items and levels, I still think they have a shot. But right now, at least from the four picks, I would favour EG.
[VG Ban Earthshaker]
F: Last pick predictions.
B: Let's go Lord of Avernus [Abaddon]. Let's go.
K: A Universe hero.
F: I think Lord of Avernus is pretty good.
K: That shield to get rid of the amp [Amplify Damage, Slardar] is pretty nice.
[EG Pick Beastmaster]
F: Beastmaster. Alright that's uh, one of Peter's [EG.PPD] ways of thinking about DOTA is that he always wants BKB disable against Shadow Fiend. So, that's kind of... why I think he picked that. Which is correct, as well.
B: I think EG might... they could just go Dazzle/Jugg top and then send Beast solo bottom versus Slardar.
C: Yeah.
F: That's possible.
B: Because Wyvern/AA won't do anything to Jugg top.
F: Depends on the last pick of VG, of course, so what will Burning play today.
B: Broodmother. [joking? unsure]
C: You sure it's gonna be a Universe Beastmaster? I saw Fear play a lot of Beastmaster.
B: No I think it's a Universe Beastmaster.
[VG Pick Silencer]
F: Silencer? Man. Alright that's the VG classic.
B: This is actually just Virtus Pro's lineup. If I look through this game, I think Dire has a Virtus Pro lineup.
K: They said that they're coming up with their own stuff - first it was core Venge, then...
B: They're just stealing FNG's stuff, man.
K: Just looking through FNG's book right now!
F: This is, uh, VG's concept of playing against Dazzle, it's the Silencer, they did it against us as well, so that kind of tells you that when they're playing against Dazzle, they think Silencer is a good answer. Which it is, but it's obviously a really long cooldown, so uh. And VG is a team that executes fights really well, I think that's an interesting pick, it means that their safelane is very strong, so I don't think they can send Jugger/Dazzle there, I think Jugger/Dazzle would get pretty destroy, so um, if VG gets all their items and timings and they don't get punished too hard early game, I think they have a good shot.
C: I think Vici might have to go aggressive, just 'cause they need to keep heroes on EG's safelane, like keep as many heroes as possible on the bot lane, and they need to have Slardar have a good game.
B: That's the biggest thing, right?
[conversation moves into commentary of the game]

--
2:05 - Bulba predicts VG, FIRST PICK, SHADOW FIEND - CORRECT
2:53 - Bulba predicts EG, SECOND PHASE BAN, VENGEFUL SPIRIT - CORRECT
5:55 - Fly predicts VG, SECOND PHASE PICK, ANCIENT APPARITION - CORRECT
6:39 - Fly suggests VG, PICK, QUEEN OF PAIN - INCONCLUSIVE, EG BAN
7:25 - Bulba suggests VG, PICK, BEASTMASTER - INCONCLUSIVE, EG PICK
8:11 - Kotlguy predicts EG, FOURTH PICK, WINDRANGER - WRONG
