The Summit 4, Upper Bracket Finals, Game 3 - EG vs VG
Match ID: 1995989266
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d2YdxcxRSxA

Casters: Kotlguy, OG.MoonMeander, OG.Crit, DC.Bulba
Kotl is a caster, the other three are pro players
[Comments in square brackets]
[Picks and bans also in square brackets as they happen]

K: Alright everyone, welcome back to The Summit 4, we're in the Winner Bracket Final, we're getting into the last match. Game three hype - it's EG versus Vici Gaming, we have kicked off Fly and brought in Moon. Welcome my friend, did you watch much of the series up to this point or have you been messing around? [has aside with production over his microphone]
M: I'm back! Yeah, I was watching the games. Now I'm back, like Na'Vi and Alliance [this is a reference to a meme].
K: It's already happening. It's taken, like, twenty seconds before it comes out.
B: The meme machine.
K: MemeMeander is here, ready to go.
M: I can't wait to be in this game actually, this is EG versus Vici. The gees, against each other ['EG' against 'VG'].
K: But who will be the true gee?
M: I think, uh, EG got this.
K: Yeah? Why do you say that? Game 2 it didn't look like it.
M: Uh, well. There's like... I mean Game 2, EG had that game but they kind of threw. I think EG's gonna win just cos they're the better team. I mean NA is a superior region, right? [sarcastic]
K: I mean, that's what I hear. Mmhmm.
B: [inaudible]
M: Hmm? Nah, nah, that's ok, that was a fluke.
B: Was it a fluke?
M: Yeah, you know, sometimes China... the US owes China a lot of money, so maybe there's some 322 involvement there [again, another meme relating to match-fixing for money]. But you know I mean...
B: You're calling that a 322?
M: This time I mean, EG know [inaudible] got this. Time to show China what's up, send China back home.
K: Yeah, and China's like, 'No, you know, we want to get back.' They weren't even top three at frickin' Frankfurt [Major, a recent Valve event].
M: Oh yeah.
K: They looked good at the start, you know, pulling out the core Venge. It looked like they were reading straight from the VP drafting book, you know, now even with this core Silencer coming out. But they've obviously tried to change things up a bit. Didn't work out for 'em in Game 1 - do you think either of these teams will try to pull out something different? We were joking a bit about going back to the Logan Abaddon kind of a strat [see games 1 and 2 for Logan] once more.
M: Yeah they might.
K: You know neither team's had a chance to pull out a Huskar, or maybe a creepy Brood or something?
M: Nah, I don't think it's gonna be that kind of a game, I think it's gonna be like, uh, a Gyrocopter or a Juggernaut - maybe, actually, an Anti-Mage.
C: I think EG's going to stick to their draft, I'm pretty sure Peter's [EG.PPD] like, convinced that they should've won that game, and it pretty much just came down to their cores dying.
B: Seems that VG got first pick again.
M: I agree with Crit. Last game, I think Arteezy and Sumail died a little bit too much, and choked a little bit too much, UncleNox [a Twitch meme].
K: We also thought they were looking a bit, like, hesitant too. I don't know if it was a lack of communication between one person making a call shot and them just second-guessing themselves a bit but, it seemed like they were a little bit more gung-ho at times.
M: It's more that every time they died on Sumail or Arteezy - Arteezy's first death, not his first death but the death that changed the game, was when he tried to kill iceiceice and Vici - we talked about this yesterday too, they're just the kind of team that keep baiting you, you bite it, because it's so delicious and then you lose.
K: Yep, of course.
M: Same thing - Sumail died killing the AA, you know. It's like "Oh look at me, I'm so delicious." but then, uh, he got baited after killing the AA and Burning TP'd and killed Sumail. And all his deaths slowed the game so much so EG couldn't really do what they wanted to do.
K: Alright, well let's hop into the draft, it's already started here. Game number three - EG, Vici. GG. Let's go.
[VG has banned Dark Seer]
[EG has banned Doom]
B: SF game three? Dire?
M: Maybe Vici will let Bane go through here.
K: That's right. And also you can't forget that Undying.
B: I don't know if they'll give up the Ember.
M: Probably not.
B: They're debating it now.
K: Funny that neither of these teams are Wisp teams either.
M: Yeah, we're not seeing Io [Wisp] banned. Last thing [inaudible]
K: Like a mutual thing - don't even pick it!
B: Huskar was getting second-phase banned by VG, because EG had Dazzle.
M: Do you think EG runs Huskar?
K: It's just a pre-requisite.
B: I think if the game's set up right...
M: But in terms of, like, if they picked Huskar who would play it?
C: Ahh, Arteezy.
M: Arteezy? Can he play that?
B: No, Sumail would play Huskar.
M: Arteezy Huskar? Seriously?
B: No just look at Huskar, and you think Sumail [Sumail has a reputation for showy heroes] - like can you put Sumail's face on Huskar?
M: Can you put Arteezy's face on Huskar?
K: Well I couldn't really put Envy's [EternalEnvy] face on Huskar before Frankfurt, and they did it.
M: Yeah well we saw his [inaudible], that was some top-notch carry work.
K: They got some wins though.
[VG Bans Dazzle]
B: Holy shit it's a Dazzle ban. Is EG going to ban the Shadow Fiend or are they going to ban the Undying?
K: Well, it's like, they could end up with either if they decide like to ban a Tusk instead.
C: I'm pretty sure they're gonna ban Undying probably.
B: Undying, yeah.
C: Because they're okay with Vici picking SF. If Vici don't pick SF, they're also okay with getting SF on Radiant.
[EG Bans Winter Wyvern]
C: Okay they ban Wyvern. That's probably the same.
B: Because they want the Tusk.
[VG Picks Shadow Fiend]
M: Yeah they want Tusk. So, they might...
B: Yeah they might Tusk/Undying here.
M: Yeah they could but... it's uh... it shows a lot.
C: Tusk/Gyro's better I think.
B: There's a Gyro still. Or Gyro Undying as well, could be a thing.
M: Yeah, I think they will Tusk for sure, because they ban the Wyvern into it.
C: Yeah they will pick Tusk.
M: Tusk, uh... and there's no more saves in the pool, too, no Dazzle, no Wyvern. So yeah.
K: Omniknight! [laughs]
M: ABADDON? [laughter]
K: Can't forget him!
M: LoganBupt! That guy ruined North American DOTA pubs.
[EG Picks Tusk]
B: Tuskar.
K: Will we see...
[EG Picks Bane]
C: Oh, Bane.
B: Oh shit, we forgot about the Bane.
M: Yeah that's a standard opening.
B: What does VG take here?
[VG Picks Undying]
M: Undying.
B: Undying, yeah. What if VG bust out... what if iceiceice is playing the Abaddon? This is a good Abaddon game for them.
[VG Bans Queen of Pain]
C: Yeah.
M: Nah they're not gonna...
C: I'm sure he's been playing some pubs here, watching.
B: He actually hasn't been playing pubs.
C: Yeah but he's been watching a lot.
K: He's lurkin'.
B: He's a lurker!
K: He's got a little notepad.
B: Just like Black, you know Black's a lurker, too.
[Camera cuts to practice area]
K: There's footage of lurkers.
B: Moon's also a lurker.
M: I'm not a lurker! I just sit down and fiend.
B: Every time I look at Moon he's just... he's on Twitch watching old VODs of... he just fiends himself.
[EG Bans Slardar]
M: Yeah that's what you're supposed to do!
B: Moon you're the biggest fiender I know.
M: Yeah, fiending is good for your health! [laughter]
B: Is it actually good for your health?
M: Yeah! Look at me, a year ago I wasn't even pro, right?
B: What if you lose, though?
C: Then you don't fiend it.
M: What? You don't fiend it if you don't [I heard don't but later they seem to contradict this] lose.
K: That's just negative energy!
B: So you didn't fiend The Defense then?
M: I didn't fiend The Defense, no.
B: I'm just askin'! I'm not... you guys won a Major, dude, it's okay to ask about The Defense.
M: I just love the Twitch chat you know.
K: [referring to The Defense] It was just a fluke, a fluke.
M: You guys don't love Twitch chat?
B: No-one on my team fiends Twitch chat.
M: What's wrong with you guys? I mean maybe you guys think it's childish or whatever.
B: Man we've been getting flamed on Twitch chat for the past four months. Maybe that's why!
M: Everyone gets flamed on Twitch chat. FeelsBadMan.
K: Unless you're ODPixel [another caster] no-one is safe. That's what I've learned.
B: Yeah unless you're ODPixel. Or Blitz [another caster/pro].
M: Or... KOTLguy.
K: Oh no! I...
M: Blitz gets flamed, everyone spams MingLee when Blitz comes on [MingLee is a Twitch emoticon used to indicate someone from Asia in what is a fairly obviously racist Twitch meme, but that's a story for another day].
K: Plenty of hate coming my way.
M: Plenty of flame. Like calling Blitz fat. And Asian. It's racist. And just... inappropriate.
[VG Bans Phantom Lancer]
B: No-one flames Crit.
M: Yeah no-one flames Crit, that's true.
B: Cos Crit's like the 2 position on OG, hiding as the 4 position. [laughter]
[EG Bans Vengeful Spirit]
M: Pretty much, pretty much.
[EG Picks Gyrocopter]
C: [laughs] Alright, alright.
M: Crit just tp's [teleports] to my lane and takes all my farm actually.
C: Yeah that's what happens(!)
B: Last game you said you've been in that place where as a Wyvern you're Level 5 at 10 minutes with no CS. You've never been there, man, I've seen your Wyvern! You're like 40 CS at 10 minutes in, you have like Tranquils, Soul Ring, Wand, Glimmer Cape.
K: A Ferrari.
B: Moon over there, you know.
M: Suffering.
B: Suffering, pulling the safe lane.
K: Crit's like, that was a bad game.
B: Okay what does VG take here. I'm surprised they didn't take the.. ban the Gyro there, that was uh... I feel like Gyro can completely own this game. Like, SF has no-one to protect him...
M: I mean, sure you can look at it like that, and like, Gyro is a good ban. But sometimes I'm like, I understand the QoP ban because they got wrecked by it. The PL ban.
K: They did the same exact thing in game one, they got the Undying and then banned PL.
B: What if VG fourth picks Broodmother? It's a good Broodmother game.
M: Broodmother is such a disgusting hero, I dunno.
K: I mean, I was all for it.
M: I mean...
B: What do they do? Like this Gyro can't leave Broodmother's lane, you know.
M: Yeah but at the same time, you have Brood SF.
B: Is it that bad though?
M: Pretty bad.
B: Ok. I dunno if it's that bad.
M: Like, you wanna fight, but, you have Broodmother.
[VG Picks Silencer]
B: Ohhh shit.
M: Yeah they're not fighting now.
K: Well, Virtus Pro, I mean Vici Gaming are going to be picking the Silencer here, third. You never know, could still be a support.
M: Could be, yeah.
K: But now you start thinking, how are we gonna get rid of this.
B: TA, Lina.
K: Natural Eul's carriers. Maybe someone with a Guardian Greaves.
C: Probably no Abaddon any more.
M: Oh yeah. I mean Silencer is pretty good against Tusk, you know that? Cos when you use his third skill on Tusk, and Tusk snowballs, he actually cannot snowball again. He has to wait the whole duration. And he gets damaged too.
B: [off-mic] what?
K: We'll see. Lots of magical and teamfight damage here.
B: Oh, Miracle wants to cast? You want my headset?
[EG Picks Alchemist]
M: Oh shit, it's an Alchemist?
K: An EG Alchemist? Don't see that often.
B: They have, like, no stuns [referring to VG].
M: Yeah. He's definitely going the Miracle build on Alchemist.
K: The Miracle build? Yeah?
[Miracle, leaning in]: shoutout to [inaudible]!
[laughter]
K: Ladies and gentlemen, that was your 8k cast there [referring to Miracle's ranking of 8,000+ in pub games]. Came and went.
B: That was really weird, actually.
M: He just took my headset and gave a shoutout to his friend. I thought he was gonna meme, but... very disappointed. That's some KappaPride right there.
K: His meme MMR game could use some work. That's where you come in.
M: I'll coach him, don't worry.
[VG Pick Nightstalker]
B: That was a good pick.
M: Was it?
K: Lots of silence now.
B: They can... they needed something to run at them right? You need to run at EG's lineup.
M: I think, um, I think it's more so that they can fight the runes, you know. They have Undying/Nightstalker...
[camera cuts to Liquid's room]
K: Matumbaman so thirsty, look at that.
M: I mean what offlaner do they have left, though.
B: Who, EG?
M: I mean Slardar was banned. No, Vici. I mean Slardar was banned, who else was there left?
B: Like Beastmaster, Clockwerk.
M: Not Clockwerk. Not Beastmaster. It was like Centaur, or...
B: Broodmother.
M: Broodmother... once again...
K: Into Alch? You know, all that sweet little spider gold. Scary. iceiceice Timbersaw?
M: Ahh, Timbersaw is actually pretty decent, actually. Oh, they could Phoenix, actually.
[EG Bans Rubick]
B: That's actually a Sumail Alchemist or a Sumail Gyro. Probably a Sumail Alchemist.
M: Sumail Alchemist, yeah. They ban Rubick. What does that mean?
K: Well, could it be... Fear Tusk and then they go for Clockwerk on Universe?
M: Not against Undying.
B: I mean, I think it's just, like one of those picks, you know, Rubick will give VG some disable...
M: I think it's gonna be Earthshaker, because that's why they ban Rubick, Earthshaker or Magnus.
[VG Bans Bounty Hunter]
K: That's true.
B: Or Clockwerk.
M: Earthshaker's pretty good here.
[EG Picks Broodmother]
M: OH MY GOD.
K: Oh goodness, it's a Brood! Didn't I say at the start maybe we'll see something funky? Like maybe a Brood?
B: I picked it for the wrong team, though.
M: That's what I said, Bulba, that's why I was asking when you said, 'For EG?'
B: I was actually thinking VG fourth pick, but... I mean Brood is a good pick, Brood crushes these lanes, I mean what does VG do now in lanes? They're actually just screwed, right? They need like a Barathrum [Spirit Breaker] or something?
M: Yeah. I'm not sure.
B: What do they do here, Bounty Hunter? Oh no, it's banned. They banned it!
[VG Picks Ember Spirit]
M: Wow. That was a good pick.
K: I forgot about that hero, haven't seen him in a while.
B: Support Silencer now.
K: Yeah they had to flip the script.
C: EG should go aggressive with the Gyrocopter, put Brood safelane.
B: Yeah.
M: Yeah they should.
B: I mean if this game gets to midgame, this Ember has a free game, kind of, because the only way they can kill him is with the Bane grip.
M: No they have Alchemist.
B: Yeah Alchemist as well, but that's like...
M: No it's pretty reliable.
K: He's just so happy [Miracle is smiling behind the analysts panel]
M: I think that EG came out ahead of the draft here. The Brood last pick won them the draft I think. Some disgusting shit, honestly, Brood pickers. WutFace, man [another Twitch emote]. Honestly, I think the only way VG can win this is they've gotta match the Ember Spirit against the Broodmother. If EG goes aggressive, um, I think they have no chance.
[conversation moves into commentary of the game]

--
2:03 - Moon, Anti-Mage [weak] -
4:47 - Crit, prediction EG, FIRST PHASE BAN, UNDYING - WRONG
4:59 - All, Tusk/Gyro/Undying suggestions for first-phase EG picks - 1/3 correct
8:37 - Bulba, VG, FOURTH PICK, BROODMOTHER - WRONG
9:14 - Bulba, Templar Assassin, Lina [weak] - WRONG
