The Summit 4, Quarterfinals, Game 1 - EHOME vs Team Liquid
Match ID: ???
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=63w7P2QaSjI

Casters: Kotlguy, Fogged, SirActionSlacks, Merlini
Kotl is a caster, Fogged is pro/caster, Slacks is a community personality guy?, Merlini is an ex-pro turned analyst
[Comments in square brackets]
[Picks and bans also in square brackets as they happen]

[discussion has been going on for a while]
S: Alright, so you're a genius - what's good about Abaddon? What's the deal?
M: What? What's wrong with him? [laughter]
S: Okay! Why do people pick him? I'm not trying to judge Abaddon here.
M: He's good versus...
F: Well, no-one's picked him yet.
M: You see a lot of people go Yasha into Manta, stuff to dispel Amplify Damage, Guardian Greaves, he's kind of pretty useful versus that, dispelling the vision constantly on the Amp Damage is a pretty big deal in teamfights. Aside from that he's pretty useful versus Bane, which is pretty popular but not as popular as before, because of all the single-target. Aside from those two, I wouldn't say he's especially good versus any of the heroes? Maybe... so-so versus Tusk, I suppose.
F: He's kind of like a teamfighter, though, people are getting auras on him - Vlads, Drums and then they go like Aghs and it's just like, he's just that massive teamfight presence.
M: We haven't really seen him...
F: Yeah of course, we haven't gotten to see him.
M: But why not just pick Doom?
F: Because he's banned! [laughter] They have to pick the Abaddon.
M: So, what, he's a crappy version of Doom, is what we're saying, in terms of being able to tank and just support his team.
K: It's like that poor man's version of Wraith King support, you don't really want to focus... he's hard to bring down, you're gonna be expending a lot, you might even get hurt along the way and then you have to go back and heal up, you know, the Wraith King's like the Venomancer support, it's like, I don't wanna deal with that crap! I'm gonna go over there, I'm gonna get goo all over me, and it's gonna take so much to bring down.
M: Yeah, well it's shifted a lot to a lot of single target, with the Slardar/Windranger, and you just amp, shackle, and Abaddon just complete wrecks that. But now people are going back to more AoE which is not Abaddon's forte at dealing with so...
K: It's case-by-case.
M: Yeah.
K: Maybe they ban out a Dazzle and a Wyvern, and you need a defensive support, and they happen to have a Bane and a Slardar..
M: He's also really good at pushing - the sustain as well as Frostmourne- [Abaddon's passive, Curse of Avernus]
F: Frostmourne, yeah.
M: -on towers is REALLY good. [looking at Slacks] Or... Curse of Avernus.
S: Curse of Avernus. "FROSTMOURNE", bro?
M: It was in DOTA 1!
S: Too much Hearthstone.
M: I mean I haven't seen him since DOTA 1, really. [meaning, in the pro meta, I think]
S: Damn!
F: He's good for Rosh.
M: Good for Rosh. Good for objectives - he's really good for EHOME's teamplay.
F: What about ever seeing him in a core position?
[Okay there's actually another minute of this, I'm gonna skip it, my RSI thanks you for understanding]
S: Oh! Finally, we have something else to talk about.
F: Finally, after three tries, that other broadcaster from who knows where finally manages to get in, and it's EHOME versus Liquid! Get your... pants... ready.
[Liquid has banned Queen of Pain]
[EHOME has banned Winter Wyvern]
M: Who is Rock?
K: Man look at that fancy overlay! Shoutout to Sam AKA OneTwoDeathMan, he put together these sleek and sexy overlays.
S: Oh man.
[Liquid Bans Tusk]
F: Okay, I was about to say, they're gonna ban QoP and Tusk and right away they just knock 'em right out.
[EHOME Bans Dark Seer]
F: That's EHOME's probably two best heroes.
K: Well, Doom is still out there. So he's usually the hot commodity at this point if he's not grabbed up.
F: There's a Doom/Wisp [Wisp is Io]. A Dazzle, a Slardar.
S: You like that Wisp?
M: I don't think they need to grab Slardar first though, EHOME has shown not to like it that much.
[Liquid Picks Io]
S: Ooohhh.
F: Yeah they're gonna go for the ball.
S: The Wisp! [makes wisp noises]
K: Now, EHOME, do they like, "Hey I'm gonna steal the Tiny"?
S: [laughs] Why d'you make it sound so dirty?
M: No they like Bristleback a lot versus... they actually just like Bristleback a lot. They might just casually go Bristle no wisp. Later in the phase, I don't expect them to pick it up in the first phase. Um. Aside from that, what about Tiny? Are we gonna see Tiny picked now? Taken by Liquid? Or just banned out in the second phase?
F: I wouldn't see why EHOME wouldn't take it. It's still a good hero.
M: I think that's the same hero that plays the Bristle.
F: Oh okay. Well.
K: Unless they put it on support?
F: I mean we've seen some teams...
S: It's pretty good!
[EHOME Picks Doom]
F: Well Doom is the obvious pickup here.
[EHOME Picks Ancient Apparition]
F: And then, okay, so they just going directly to kinda counter out the Wisp. Not really caring if it's a Tiny picked up.
K: Plus it kinda makes you think twice if they want to go full-fledged and go like, a Dazzle also with this Wisp, they're like "Ehhh... maybe not so much now"
F: Good opener from EHOME.
K: But you see a move like that from EHOME, and maybe Liquid are like "Okay, maybe we don't have to early commit to the Tiny, maybe we can save it..." but then they risk getting it banned in the second phase I suppose, so...
[Liquid Picks Razor]
K: Razorrrrr!
S: Ohhh!
K: There he is! It's Liquid, after all.
F: Very good, I mean it's good versus Doom in general, after all. Of course, if you get Doomed it sucks, but you have Unstable Current so he gets slowed and can't chase you down with it, if you get your link off and your ult before the Doom goes off you're good anyway.
[Liquid Bans Lina]
K: Yep.
S: Hmm. Interesting. Are people playing the alchemist any more these days? Or is that... I haven't seen too much of it this tournament.
F: It's like a last pick. The fourth pick or last pick.
M: Yeah it's a fourth or fifth pick.
S: Okay, okay. Well, definitely not this time with the Ancient Apparition for Team Liquid.
F: Yeah, probably.
S: No Lina, no Dark Seer, good choice there against them, y'know, [whispers] the Mind_Control - 71% winrate.
F: Yeah.
[EHOME Bans Slardar]
S: Sladar [sic] - no more.
F: They're really securing FATA's midlane right now, though. They're banning out the CTY QoP, the Lina, obviously the Tusk Eleven [Eleven is another player on EHOME].
K: EHOME, we're seeing that they're going against a Razor here - how many options are there left to actually win that lane, or do you go up for something like a Shadow Fiend, which happens to still be in the pool? But you are on the Dire side.
F: That is ac... I'd completely overlooked that before. Shadow Fiend was not touched.
K: Yeah, Shadow Fiend completely ignored. And Liquid opting for the Razor over him so...
[Liquid Bans Bounty Hunter]
F: Even more securing of the lane. They really want their lanes to do well, banning out the Bounty as well, so no roams, no lane dominators, nothing like that.
S: No Bounty Hunter. Is that interesting? Is that an interesting ban?
M: EHOME runs it a decent amount. They'd like to pressure the Io very very early, but they don't have Tusk and Bounty Hunter, so their offlane is actually not gonna be that strong. What about Undying, too? We haven't seen Undying picked up by either of these teams yet.
[EHOME Bans Nightstalker]
K: Only OG are always like still grabbing the tried and true...
M: No Vici likes it too.
K: Oh you're right, you're right.
M: I'm surprised EHOME haven't picked it up though, it's surprisingly good versus Wisp.
S: Any predictions here? What do we got boys, who wants to call it out?
K: Well, probably gotta think about their midlane soon, on the side of EHOME here. Plus for Liquid, they've got to get what's remaining from the offlane pool because they just got rid of the Slardar, Nightstalker's gotta go.
F: Why'd they ban the Nightstalker? Trying to think.
K: Maybe they want Ember, at some point?
F: That could be it.
M: Mmmm. They don't run Ember very often. They tried it a few times on CTY, it didn't go so well for them, and every since then they're kinda like 'eh, we'll just leave it'.
F: Okay.
K: Maybe they want just heavy initiators who value having that extra bit of vision?
[EHOME Picks Bane]
S: Ohhh! Easy.
F: They go back for the Bane.
K: Helps against the Razor if they want to put him in that dual lane.
M: Yeah but he has all 'click on hero' abilities which is not that great versus Razor.
K: That's true.
M: Get mega-purged.
F: Hmm.
M: It's still a very strong early-game support though. A lot of burst to handle the wisp. You want a lot of burst versus a Wisp - like, even an ice blast and a brain sap could almost kill him. If you don't have Bounty Hunter or Lina or Queen of Pain.
S: Here comes the Omniknight! [I'm not noting this down as a prediction because Slacks just loves this hero and would suggest it even if it had been banned.] This is it. Great against... Bane....
M: It's terrible versus Doom.
K: And terrible versus AA. [laughter]
S: Whatever, bro! They're gonna run it.
M: He's just one of the heroes you just don't wanna pick versus Doom.
S: [sighs] I actually like Omni versus Doom because he always makes you his priority.
M: I guess so. But you can just Doom Repel off and... [laughs] just get owned!
K: I guess it's like that thing, you know, where you go against Doom and the other tactic is you just get a lot of things that Doom has to Doom and y'know, something's gonna get through.
S: Exactly!
K: Start throwing in a Timbersaw...
M: Invoker...
S: Exactly, that's the pub strat, you pick Omni when there's lots of Doomable targets and he'll always get you. And then that's it, you just run away and die, but hey - teamfight's still won, you got it.
F: Is Kuroky the Wisp player for them? Yeah, right?
K: He used to play for Na'Vi. Who else would... yeah Jerax, Jerax is gonna roam around and do some shit.
[Liquid Pick Witch Doctor]
S: Oooh yeaaaah.
K: What partially being a.... no, yeah. Witch Doctor grab though. I was gonna say partially a deny pick but obviously EHOME committing for their two supports but. More sustain. The Voodoo Restoration against AA is a bit peculiar, but then - it's a Witch Doctor.
S: Yeah.
F: He's strong versus... he can force the Doom out of the lane, kind of like I guess like a substitute for AA, I guess you could say, for trying to pressure people out of lanes, but yeah that voodoo restoration, very good, death ward - he can kind of just stay in the back, they don't have too many disables right now.
[EHOME Picks Tiny]
S: There it is.
F: EHOME goes for the Tiny. Bane/Tiny, pretty strong combo, y'know - Sleep, Toss, Avalanche, Brain Sap. It's what, like, 1300 damage later on, instantly? Pretty scary.
S: Oh baby.
M: Hard to deal with the Razor frontline though, still.
F: Yeah, definitely.
M: Like, you... it's really hard for them to get past him, even with Ice Blast he's still not gonna feel that threatened. He has a good backline to protect him.
K: Do you think we could see a Clockwerk for Mind_Control maybe? What are we thinking here for the offlane of Liquid?
S: Hmm.
K: They have to possibly be putting... if the Bane can't go mid and harass the Razor effectively, you know, he'll probably be stuck going against the Bane and whoever this mystery fifth pick for EHOME might be.
M: Yeah, I do like Clockwerk. He's good at kiting the Tiny, the only thing I'm a little worried about is that it's not that great with the Razor because the Razor has short range. But it's good with the Relocate and it's good with the Witch Doctor death ward. It's pretty strong versus the lanes, you can actually pressure the AA a decent amount, I would say.
F: Okay so EHOME, that's probably, what, a mid Tiny? And they need, what... okay, a Gyrocopter, or something, last or something along those lines?
M: CTY Gyro? I feel like he's... they're gonna go something stranger, though. [laughs]
F: Something much stranger, definitely.
[Liquid Picks Nature's Prophet]
F: Okay.
S: Wow.
K: First of the final here.
S: What hero was that, I haven't see a Nature's Prophet in a long time.
F: That one I definitely would not have expected. That's something I don't think we've seen Mind_Control play, almost at all.
K: Why are we seeing it here and now? Something peculiar, I mean, what, Sprout kiting potential against Tiny?
S: Yeah, dude, it's that global presence strat! Here comes the Zeus pick.
F: Well, the AA and the Bane both want their levels, and Furion [Nature's Prophet] is going to disrupt that, just constantly sending treants, blocking the pulls, etc. so... they also don't have the... ehh actually they kill treants pretty decently, but Furion will be able to get decent experience, block the pulls, et cetera. Just kinda screw with them.
K: Good depush obviously if he ever manages to farm up and go that crazy Bulldog build of Aghs and Octarine.
[EHOME bans Lycan]
K: You're never going to make it out from your base, it feels like.
S: [laughs] That's an interesting ban on Lycan there, I guess they're a little worried about that aggressive push strat.
F: Yeah. A little bit afraid of the group-up potential just from the Furion pick.
M: I think they have pretty good anti-push though?
F: Yeah.
M: Already. I wonder if they're gonna go greedy though, and go something like Spectre for CTY.
[Liquid Bans Gyrocopter]
F: They did ban Gyro, for Liquid. I felt like that was the most obvious, so...
M: Anti-Mage, maybe?
F: AM's looking pretty decent. Not much lockdown, Furion's...
K: And we're not thinking an Ember, we think Ember is just something we don't see...
M: Ember - yeah, Ember's... they just don't favour it as much as other teams. I'm thinking more, like, what, AM/Spectre/Jugg maybe?
K: Uh, PL [Phantom Lancer]? Do they have a lot to stop PL? [pause] It's that time, we'll just name stuff.
S: Yeah! [laughter]
K: Throw everything at the wall, hope something sticks.
S: Do you guys like Axe? [laughs] Yeah I don't really know where their head's at, they've got a little bit of everything. Nice support, little bit of global, lot of carry, so... yeah.
F: EHOME just lacks outspam.
S: Yeah. We shall see.
F: But that's not the last hero that they could pick [referring to Axe].
S: Show me the Axe! [laughs] I like Axe. He's fun. I don't think he'd fit in good... but I like watchin' him.
F: I like the AM but I just don't know if he fits into what I think the plan that they're kinda looking at, with the Doom and the Tiny, and all this it looks like they kind of want to just fight.
S: Right.
[EHOME Picks Ember Spirit]
F: So they do just go K [?] Ember. So that's just, you know, more fight - like you said, a bit out of the ordinary for them, but, it fits...
M: I think CTY's record is like, one win and like, six losses or something? One and four?
S: Maybe they'll change it up.
M: Hopefully.
F: They've got a pretty solid draft. Like I said, lacking a little bit of outspam, but their teamfight and early aggression is pretty ridiculous. They have a lot of burst.
K: So, uh, we need that safelaner here for Liquid. Can't go PL now!
S: Yeah.
K: I mean it's already... teams still do, even against an Ember, but it's highly, y'know, not the best choice really. But outside of that...
F: That could also be why they picked the Ember. They were like, "Oh, you know, they might pick the PL now, we need to deter it completely, we don't have to worry about it at all."
S: What are you thinking, Mr. Wu?
F: Mr. Ben?
M: Hmm. I don't know. EHOME's clearly scared of the push if they ban out the Lycan, so I wonder what other substitute there is. Safelane Pugna?
F: Lone Druid.
M: Lone Druid. Yeah. There's not that many other pushers.
F: Lone Druid versus Bane? I don't know you guys.
S: Safelane Shaman you guys, how about that? Yeah!
[Liquid Picks Wraith King]
S: Ohhh! Wraith King.
F: Wraith King! Alright. That's just something safe.
K: His Royal Majesty!
F: That's actually, like, the most obvious one. I can't believe none of us...
S: Really?
F: Versus Doom.
K: Oh, Doom. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
M: Yeah he has much better synergy with Wisp than the other heroes.
F: Yeah absolutely.
K: It's a nice grab.
F: Winter would've called that.
S: If only we had Winter.
F: He's upstairs losing pubs, don't worry.
S: Well, this'll be a good one, man. Predictions so far? Just based on the teams? What are you guys thinking, what are the strengths, what are the weaknesses, what have we got?
K: Almost part of it is hard to gauge because, I was mentioning with the Ember Spirit and obviously the Nature's Prophet on Liquid we're seeing some fresh stuff from these teams, unless they've been running this a lot in their scrim play, which obviously we don't get a lot of intel about, this is something new to us and I'm very curious to see those particular picks.
M: I like Liquid's lanes a little bit better. I think they already have a win in mid with the Razor matchup, I think they have a lot more mobility with the Nature's Prophet and the Io, they can kinda keep the AA occupied and move around the map.
F: I'm just worried the fact - they lack the lockdown.
[conversation moves into commentary of the game]

--
16:26 - Merlini predicts EHOME Picks Bristleback [weak - 'might'] - WRONG
24:13 - Merlini predicts EHOME Picks Anti-Mage [weak - 'maybe'] - WRONG

Heroes mentioned but not really predicted:
KOTL - Shadow Fiend, EHOME - WRONG
KOTL - Ember, EHOME - CORRECT
Merlini - Undying, EHOME - WRONG
Merlini - AM, Spectre, Jugg, EHOME - WRONG
